<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />

		<title>ALTO Board Meeting Agenda</title>

	</head>

<body>
<p>
Draft agenda for December 11, 2014 ALTO board teleconference.  If you have changes or additions, please email them to everyone as soon as possible. 
</p>

<ol>
<li>Review action items [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Review comments and feedback from release of ALTO schema v3.0 (if any). [<b>Everyone</b>]</li>
<li>Report on September 10 ALTO editorial board face-to-face meeting in London: Agenda and summary of items discussed.
	[<b>Markus</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Discussion of proposed acceptance of Glyphs change request <a href =https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/26>(issue 26)</a>.
	(See item 10 in <a href=https://http://altoxml.github.io/2014-09-25%20ALTO%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes.html>minutes</a> from London face-to-face meeting)  [<b>Joachim</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Discussion of proposed acceptance of Shape change request <a href =https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/22>(issue 22)</a>.
	(See item 10 in <a href=https://http://altoxml.github.io/2014-09-25%20ALTO%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes.html>minutes</a> from London face-to-face meeting)  [<b>Evelien</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Discussion about 3 'submitted' change requests: Should these requests advance to 'discussion'? See issue <a href =https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/18>18</a>,
	<a href =https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/21>21</a>, and <a href =https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/12>12</a>.
	[<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Review organization and use of Github.  See items 1 to 9 in <a href=https://http://altoxml.github.io/2014-09-25%20ALTO%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes.html>minutes</a> from London face-to-face meeting). [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>If time permits, a brief report on effort to recruit new board members. Question for Siang Hock: Can you represent Asian languages (instead of recruiting a new board member for this)? [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Reminder to send URLs to digital collections which use ALTO XML to Nate so that he can update the use case examples at <a href=http://www.loc.gov/standards/alto/community/implementers.php>ALTO Implementers</a> [<b>Frederick</b> harangues everyone]</li>
</ol>

<p>
Action items
</p>

<ul>
<li>[Action 2014-09-10] <b>Everyone</b> set her/his Github profile to 'public'so that ALTO board members are visible on Github.</li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Frederick</b> will contact UT Austin about broken link on Library of Congress's ALTO implementer's webpage.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Jean Philippe</b> and <b>Jukka</b> will create draft schema version 2.2 and create a README for it.  They will send the README to the ALTO for comment.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Nate</b> will make the corresponding updates to the Library of Congress ALTO webpages on July 8.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Frederick</b> will announce the draft schema release on the ALTO listserv and distribute the README.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Brian</b> and <b>Evelien</b> will send hi-res logos for CDNC and KB respectively to Jean Philippe.  <b>Jukka</b> will send a hi-res logo for Finland.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] <del><b>Jean Philippe</b> will create a branch of the v2.1 ALTO schema on Github. The branch will be used to implement the needed named types for ALTO dialects in schema v2.2.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] <del><b>Jean Philippe</b> will draft a design for the ALTO poster at WLIC 2014.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] <del><b>Jukka</b> will create a short document showing how to migrate open change proposals from PBWorks to Github.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-02-20] <del><b>Everyone</b> will copy the open proposal that they champion from PBworks to Github.  The open proposals will become "issues" in Github.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2013-12-12] <b>Brian</b> will create text for an ALTO tools and software webpage.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-11-03] <b>Frederick</b> will recruit a board member from an OCR software development team, perhaps Tesseract.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-11-03] <b>Frederick</b> will recruit a board member from an Asian language country.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-09-19] <b>Everyone</b> to send ALTO use cases to Nate.  Nate will add new use cases to the ALTO implementers webpage.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-04-11] <b>Frederick</b> will draft a change proposal for "normalized" coordinates.</li>
</ul>

</body>
</html>
