<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />

		<title>ALTO Board Meeting</title>

	</head>

<body>
<p>
Draft agenda for July 3, 2014 ALTO board teleconference.  If you have changes or additions, please email them to everyone as soon as possible. 
</p>

<ol>
<li>Review action items [Frederick leads discussion]</li>
<li>Discuss Github issue 19 (https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/19) for inclusion in ALTO schema 2.2. [Jean Philippe leads discussion]</li>
<li>Discuss release of ALTO schema v2.2 with named types to accommodate ALTO dialects and with embedded ALTO schema version. [Everyone]</li>
<li>Review ALTO poster for IFLA WLIC Aug 18-19 in Lyon France. [Jean Philippe and Frederick lead discussion]</li>
<li>ALTO editorial board face-to-face meeting: Where will it be?  Most likely at WLIC 2014 (http://conference.ifla.org/ifla80) in Lyon (Aug 16-22).  Less likely at the JCDL/TPDL Joint Conference (http://www.dl2014.org/) in London (Sep 8-12)?  least likely at the DLF Forum (http://www.diglib.org/forums/2014forum/) in Atlanta, Georgia (Oct 27-29)? [Frederick leads discussion]</li>
<li>Review migration from PBWorks to Github (see Action 2014-02-20 below).  Jukka may demonstrate how to migrate open proposals from PBWorks to Github.  [Frederick harangues everyone.  Jukka demonstrates migration.]</li>
<li>Overview of ResCarta toolkit (http://www.rescarta.org/).  [Brian leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Discuss creation of an ALTO Github website. See http://altoxml.github.io. [Frederick leads discussion]</li>
<li>Reminder to send URLs to digital collections which use ALTO XML to Nate so that he can update the ALTO use case examples at http://www.loc.gov/standards/alto/community/implementers.php [Frederick harangues everyone]</li>
</ol>

<p>
Action items
</p>

<ul>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] Jean Philippe will create a branch of the v2.1 ALTO schema on Github. The branch will be used to implement the needed named types for ALTO dialects in schema v2.2.</li>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] Jean Philippe will draft a design for the ALTO poster at WLIC 2014.</li>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] Jukka will create a short document showing how to migrate open change proposals from PBWorks to Github.</li>
<li>[Action 2014-02-20] Everyone will copy the open proposal that they champion from PBworks to Github.  The open proposals will become "issues" in Github.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-12-12] Brian will create text for an ALTO tools and software webpage.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-11-03] Frederick will try to recruit a board member from an OCR software development team, perhaps Tesseract.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-11-03] Frederick will try to recruit a board member from an Asian language country.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-09-19] Everyone to send ALTO use cases to Nate.  Nate will add new use cases to the ALTO implementers webpage.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-04-11] Frederick will draft a change proposal for "normalized" coordinates.</li>
</ul>

</body>
</html>
