<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
		<title>ALTO Board Meeting Agenda</title>
	</head>
<body>
<p>
Draft agenda for December xx, 2015 ALTO board teleconference.  If you have changes or additions, please email them to everyone as soon as possible. 
</p>

<ol>
<li>Review action items [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Review proposed changes to ALTO Board Membership. See items in <i>italics</i> and marked [<b>PROPOSED</b>] on the <a href=https://altoxml.github.io/ALTO%20Board%20Membership%20Criteria.html>ALTO Board Membership</a> page. [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Decide when the schema changes necessary for Shape change request <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/22>(issue 22)</a> will be published.  Will we combine it with some other (simple) issue? [<b>Evelien</b> leads (brief) discussion.]</li>
<li>Summarize the face-to-face meeting discussion of the fragement identifier API for ALTO change request <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/33>(issue 33)</a>. [<b>Jean Philippe</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Summarize the face-to-face meeting discussion and continue to discuss OCR confidence value change request <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/23>(issue 23)</a>. [<b>Jukka</b> and <b>Nate</b> lead discussion.]</li>
<li>Continue discussion of Glyphs change request <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/26>(issue 26)</a>.
	(See item 10 in <a href=https://altoxml.github.io/2014-09-25%20ALTO%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes.html>minutes</a> from London face-to-face meeting)  [<b>Joachim</b> leads discussion.]</li>
</ol>

<p>
View all open action items <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item><b>here</b></a>.
</p>

</body>
</html>
