<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
		<title>ALTO Board Meeting Minutes</title>
	</head>
<body>
<p>
Agenda for October 14, 2015 ALTO board teleconference.

<ol>
<li>Review action items [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Re-announce time and location for ALTO board face-to-face meeting: 9am Friday Nov 6 in 214 Manning Hall on University of Chapel Hill campus. This room is reserved for the ALTO <b>and</b> METS board meetings (we have to share).  Note that Manning Hall is <b>not</b> the Friday Center where the iPRES conference will be held. [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Review proposal for board membership terms and criteria and recruiting new members. Do comment on <a href="https://github.com/altoxml/board/issues/20">this issue (#22)</a> in Github. (The review may be deferred and discussed at the face-to-face meeting.) [<b>Jukka</b> and <b>Frederick</b> lead discussion]</li>
<li>Adopt agenda for face-to-face meeting in Chapel Hill. Please review <a href=https://altoxml.github.io/2015-11-06%20ALTO%20Board%20Meeting%20Agenda.html>proposed agenda</a> and suggest additions to it during our Oct 14 teleconference. [<b>Everyone</b>]</li>
<li>Approve Shape change request <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/22>(issue 22)</a>. Please review documentation, use cases, and the changes proposed for schema version 3.1.
	The state of the issue has been changed to "voting", please vote on the proposed change by adding a comment clearly indicating your
	vote -- ACCEPT, REJECT -- to the discussion of the issue.  This will be the 1st issue for which we use Github voting; it would be nice to test this <b>before</b> we meet face-to-face.
	(See comments to <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/22>issue 22</a> for discussion.)  [<b>Evelien</b> leads (brief) discussion.]</li>
<li>Continue discussion of Glyphs change request <a href =https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/26>(issue 26)</a>.
	(See item 10 in <a href=https://altoxml.github.io/2014-09-25%20ALTO%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes.html>minutes</a> from London face-to-face meeting)  [<b>Joachim</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Discussion of Reading Order change request <a href =https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/18>(issue 18)</a>. [<b>Eric</b> leads discussion.]</li>
</ol>

<p>
View all open action items <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item><b>here</b></a>.
</p

<p>
<b>Attending members</b>
</p>

<ul>
<li>Brian Geiger</li>
<li>Evelien Ket</li>
<li>Frederick Zarndt</li>
<li>Joachim Bauer</li>
<li>Jukka Kervinen</li>
</ul>

<p>
<b>Minutes</b>
</p>
<p>
Frederick shows board action items. He asks if anyone has new ALTO use cases (no one does).
Frederick asked Clemens Neudecker if he is interested in becoming a board member. Clemens is considering this ...
</p>
<p>
Frederick re-annouces the location of the ALTO board meeting in Chapel Hill (room 214 Manning Hall, University of North Carolina).
</p>
<p>
Frederick begins discussion of the proposed changes to ALTO board membership. 
See <a href=https://altoxml.github.io/ALTO%20Board%20Membership%20Criteria.html>item 4</a>).
A lengthy discussion about board membership and new board members ensues.
Jukka suggests that someone from the National Archives of Sweden may be interested in becoming a board member since it digitizes Swedish newspapers.
Joachim suggests a free lancer from the UK who works with libraries and archives on digitization projects.
</p>
<p>
Frederick showed the draft agenda for the face-to-face meeting at iPRES and asked if anyone has additions or changes.
Joachim suggests adding a release date for a new schema containing the Shape and Glyphs change requests, assuming that both are approved.
</p>
<p>
We continue discussion of Shape change request (agenda item 5). See comments on <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/22>(issue 22)</a>.
A result of the discussion, some additional work is needed for <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/22>(issue 22)</a>. 
We will complete discussion of the Shape change request at the face-to-face meeting (Frederick adds discussion of the Shape change request to the face-to-face meeting agenda).
</p>
<p>
We continue discussion of Glyphs change request (agenda item 6). See comments on <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/26>(issue 26)</a>.
The Glyphs change request discussion will continue at the face-to-face meeting.
</p>
</body>
</html>
